Home Page
Hello I am Daniel Hernandez. I am a Cuban-American student at Florida International University. I was born in Cuba, but at the ripe young age of one my family legally immigrated to the United States, with their hearts dead set on working for a better future. Even with our low income, at a young age i gravitated towards technology, but not quite in the sense of just watching youtube and surfing the internet as some other kids my age were.When my family bought a home computer, one meant for me to use for school and for them to pay bills, I soon would spent countless hours going through the setting and testing every single setting i could. I still remember my dad being mad because the computer would be unusable at times afterwards. As I grew older my family would buy me my own personal laptop, once again, meant for me to use for school. Roughly half a year later, after one of the ports would stop working, my family would find me elbows deep into the laptop, disconnecting the storage drives and ram trying to get to the motherboard to find out the ports had to be resolder. although the same passion for a better future that my family had when we first arrived to the united states never left us. when started university at FIU and continuing to this day i would get a job, working mainly in retail and warehouses. while working i learned intangible skills like teamwork, work organization, time management, and client services. often times being given tasks that were time sensitive, required consistent management, awareness to detail, and teamwork in order to be completed. furthermore i learned client services in retail being able to address client concerns,inquiries, and anger while providing proper, pleaseant, and an effective client expierence. Now as an adult I've grown an intrest in math and computer science,finding the same playful and headaching frustrating love i did as a kid with my laptop, in finding ways to implement algorithms and/or a feature and in finding underlying statistics in large amounts of data. Over the years i have done a variety of projects, and continue doing more as my skills as a programmer progresses. i know a variety of programming languages: html/css,javascript, java, python, and C. among these i am mostly comfortable with python, java, and C, even using python libraries likes pandas, numpy, and matplotlib in some of my projects.




Project page

when i first started computer science at FIU i barely knew how to properly code. in highschool i had taken a few programming classes, one of which would teach me the java programming language. but i still barely knew how to code, having a rough understanding of objects and classes, but had no idea how to properly use them or how to design them. at FIU I learned how to properly code, being able to take what i learned in the classroom into my own projects. i learned different programming languages, often times taking the summer time as a time to learn a language or learn and use some libraries. over time i became more comfortable with reading documentation and learned to take time to learn for, design, and plan for projects.

Server Page Intro

my family owned a home computer when i was younger, but by the time i was 11 the computer was gone. we were unable to keep the computer so it was sold, in its place i was given a laptop inorder to do my school work. at this point i would have never imagined i would have built, and setup my own server. let alone known what a server was, to me computers and the internet was just a place held up by magic and the idea that "it just was". i was so naive.

Server Page Education 
when i first started at FIU, I had come out of highschool taking notes in notebooks, and having a bunch of folders and binders that weighed down my bookbag. one day i had gotten the chance to try out an ipad air that a friend had, and i had enjoyed the sleekness, the compactibility, and the possibilities for written notes. the ipad was expensisive at the time for me, and although i had been working at the time for quite awhile and had been saving money for some time, i had been hacked down a bit by the purchase of a new laptop after the one i had been previously using was not recieving packets no more. but the idea of the ipad was stuck in my head, for months i contemplated the purchase. eventually i settled my mind, by this point had i had more then enough for the ipad and decided to buy it. but right at the moment of purchase i had began thinking about storage for my notes, how would i store everything? the ipad will eventually runout of space! so, i began researching solutions. i came upon many options from consumer NAS options to commercial NAS, but i settled on a bigger goal, one that would take longer to complete, and would require alot of learning on my part. 


Server Page Learning expierience
when i first did reasearch on storage for my ipad and most importantly my notes, i had already known about virtual machines and the capabilities that they are able to provide, but i had not doone anything, buti came across multiple solutions for what i wanted, commercial and consumer grade NAS, but none really intrested me, but then my reasearch led to building a NAS, and i became enamored with the idea, i deca whole machine built and setup by just mewhen i first decided to build the server, i was inexpierienced and had an idealized view of the whole process. during the whole process i learned alot about systems and networking, so much so that when i took my computer networking class at FIU i had already read and dipped my hands into some of the concepts taught in class making the class expierence alot better and more comfortable.

i had never built a computer before building the server, i had taken them apart, but never constructed one. i had ideas for the server, i had learned about virtual machines previously during a summer inbetween my classes, i had known they were useful, but had no real use for them at the time, but the possibilities were different with a server. i didnt like the idea of just grabbing an assortment of parts mix and matching them to get the machine i wanted. i wanted something efficient and powerful enough to run the things i wanted.

i didnt just want any run of the mill GPU. at the time of constructing the server, nividia had just released its rtx 4000 series, a powerful component capable of running any video game and video editing project at the time with ease. but while others were marvaling at the power of the GPU noting its capabilites with a variety of games, i was more intrested in its ram memory capacity capable of a total of 24 GB, i began thinking of the projects i could do with it. but it was too expensive for my liking and i was unable to afford it, i was even unable to afford a 16 GB version of the GPU. in addition my research led me to various complications, the other GPUs on the market did not quite fit my liking, nividias 3000 series didnt have any GPUs with memory capacity above 12 GB, and their 2000 series had the memory capacity i was looking for but were way too expensive for me, valuing at more than $1000 at the minimum. eventually i found a different GPU one that had just recently released at the time, but it had roughly the memory capacity that i was looking for, and was affordable considering the price of the other GPUs on the market. i would end up buying intels ARC A770, having 16 GBs of memory and being valued at roughly $350 at the time of purchase. not quite comparable to the Nividias 4090 with its 24 GB of memory and valued between 2500 and 3000, but the A770 was just enough for me at the time and guareenteed to be capable of what i wanted, and was priced within my capabilities.

choosing the motherboard was a little different, i had to select from a variety of motherboards that were compatible with the ARC A770, i wanted something that allowed for room to grow, i even considered motherboards with two CPU slots, ultimately i decided on going with the ____ as it was a fairly new motherboard at the time therefore it had support for the ARC A770, striking a nice balance between functionality and efficiency, in addition it was intel based so compatability between the motherboard and GPU was even greater, the mother board was slightly expensive considering cheaper options were floating around, but considering the functionalities it supports from the A770 it seemed reasonable at the time.

choosing the CPU was similar to choosing the motherboard, but now i had too look for a CPU compatible with the motherboard. i looked through various options but ultimately i was set on the ___ it was powerful and slightly expensive, but had a total of ___ cores, more than what i needed and gave me room for growth if the time ever came.

ram was fairly simple, i dont care too much about lights and stuff, and having a ___ motherboard i knew i was set to buy a very good RAM, so i went with  two ___, it was local and fairly priced at the time. perfect for my needs.

cooling was a little different then the rest. i didnt want the server to be overheating. considering at its worst the server would be running for long periods of time and the added family cats roaming around dropping hair everywhere. since the beggining of the idea a fear that the machine would overheat ate at my head, i had two options fan cooling and liquid cooling, both able to provide quality cooling. but i decided to go with a ___ liquid cooling system apart from the fancy lights, it was way more expensive. but the added cooling left me feeling less worried for future endeavors.

the case was completly different from the rest, although i didnt care about how something will look, i cared for not only the functionalities of the case but how the case would look and feel. the components are different they would mostly be viewed by me and any one who cares for it, the case would be viewed by my whole family, who had no idea i was planning on building a computer at the time, so at the sight of a tower just appearing would have raised an eyebrow, and followed by a CSI miami interogation on price and my intentions. i did alot of reasearch meticously going through different designs by different companies pruning out any that were not to my specifications, ultimately i decided on the ___ a large case that had alot of room for wires/storage, exceptional airflow, removeable filters for easy cleaning, and looked sleek and appealing with an office feel that would have satisfied my family, definitetly made the price worth the purchase.

the power supply was bought similarly as the Ram, having used online sources to calculate the power output of the machine i knew i needed a ___ power supply. so i went to a local store and bought a ____ power supply. i did buy a gold standard power supply, priced higher than the rest but was more silent than the bronze or silver, and would be more reliable in the long run.

i was specific with my storage, i wanted something reliable, but i knew i needed to buy quite a few drives for the projects i had planned. i looked mainly through seagate and Western Digital, given many options between the two companies i decided with 2 WD red harddrives, in addition i would buy 2 ___ ssd drives, by this point i was running dry on money and the excitement of wanting the machine built was overrunning me, so buying a few lesser quality drives was not much of a worry for me at the moment.

